Below is my plan to implement AI into Elysian Park Ventures and their portfolio over the span of 6 weeks:

Internal Automation

AI is very helpful for automating menial backoffice internal tasks, including but not limited to:

Excel modelling:
The Claude Excel extension* is exceptional at automating the once tedious task of populating and building models, especially when given the right context, data sources and instructions (especially with an emphasis on source/process transparency).  

File Tree Organization: 
Claude Cowork* is great for overall planning organization. For example, I give Claude access to my file tree and routinely have it filter everything into neat folders - including a suggested delete folder which I then manually delete.  In the future, I may trust Claude to delete files for me but for now I have it do all the work and essentially just do the last step.  Beyond building tools, a key goal is to help any EPV employee become genuinely proficient in using genAI tools in their day-to-day work, starting with accessible entry points like the Claude Excel* extension and Claude Cowork*, and progressing to Claude Code* / Codex / Antigravity for those who want to go deeper. 

* - Claude Opus 4.6 is the best model for these tasks currently, but this could be subject to change, of course.  

Email organization:
I use a custom email agent to summarize and filter my emails everyday.  While an email agent may sound scary and invasive, the way I have it set up is non-intrusive.  The architecture is a python program that runs the following data flow: my Gmail Inbox → Gmail API (read-only) → Claude API → Dashboard/Digest.  

Online Meeting Transcription
I’m assuming EPV already employs this in some manner or another, but I find online meeting transcription/summary extremely useful.  There are a lot of tools out there like otter.ai, fireflies.ai, or granola.ai but the backbone technology behind most of them is an open-source voice to text transcription tool called Whisper. 

Presentation Building
Google’s latest image generation model Nano Banana is exceptional at creating accurate, compelling images from contextual text prompts, which I have found very useful for fast, professional presentation construction.  If you want to automate the full deck building process, tools like gamma.ai and Figma’s AI tools are great options.  

Planning and Scheduling 
Scheduling meeting times with tons of people can get pretty cumbersome.  I know a lot of people use calendly.com but there’s an open source alternative called cal.com.  The hosted enterprise version runs $700-800/mo for 20+ people, but given its open source nature, you can actually just fork the code and self host it for basically free sans minimal server costs.  In order to add single sign-on (SSO) to this self-hosted version you’d integrate Google Workspace OAuth or Microsoft Azure AD, both of which are also free.  Another idea would be to layer in a lightweight AI scheduling agent that reads inbound meeting requests, determines priority tier (i.e. LP, portfolio company, new founder, cold outreach, etc.) and subsequently routes each person to the appropriate partner’s calendar or escalates to an EA.  This may be useful for the sourcing tool I will describe later.

Prospecting
Identifying and reaching potential LPs or deal flow contacts is important albeit time consuming.   In a prior role I built scrapers(via CURL requests or a selenium bot) to extract contact data from alumni networks and family office databases, then filtered by geography and seniority (C-suite, founder, etc.)  to amass targeted outreach lists.  A similar approach could be applied at EPV wherein the entire pipeline – scraping, filtering, data cleaning, and initial outreach drafting can be automated with a program or agent, feeding directly into the scheduling layer described above.

Current and Future Portfolio Optimization 

Custom Live Newsflow Tool
Staying up to date on portfolio companies and their various adjacent markets is very difficult to do manually and involves aggregating and synthesizing a wide array of sources in order to paint the whole picture.  A custom newsflow tool could automatically scour the internet daily for articles, filings, and mentions relevant to EPV’s portfolio and thesis strategy, tabulated into four categories: Sports+Health, Sports+Fitness, Sports+Commerce, and Sports+Community.  The optimal tech stack for this would likely consist of exa.ai for search and  web crawling, and claude for summary and categorization outputted in a dashboard or daily digest email.  I like Exa.ai because it cuts through the noise of SEO to retrieve the most pertinent information.  

Sourcing Dashboard with Inflow Channels
Spotting talented founders before the competition necessarily requires casting a wide net across many inflow channels concurrently.  A centralized, specialized sourcing dashboard could aggregate deal flow from a plethora of reputable sources: YC, Crunchbase, Pitchbook, AlphaSense, hackathon leaderboards, LinkedIn, and others into a single filterable interface.  Furthermore, when an interesting founder surfaces, an AI agent could automatically “build a biography” of the founder by pulling from their LinkedIn, X, and other public sources (github, Instagram, web articles, etc.) – consolidated and enriched by Clay.com or an in-house process. The vision here is to identify unique startup companies within the “Sports+” domain and subsequently provide a background check on the founder.  

AI Exposure Assessment Criterium
One of the harder but more important judgments in early-stage investing right now is determining exactly how defensible a company actually is in an AI-saturated market.  Furthermore, even if a company has a momentary competitive advantage, one needs to account for the possibility that it will be deemed obsolete with the next big genAI model release or breakthrough.  An assessment with a list of criteria should be produced to specifically assess this risk, especially for software companies.  This assessment would include questions and score of 1-5 spanning Sector Screening, AI Substitutionality, Competitive Threat Intensity, Revenue/Margin Durability, Customer Cost Sensitivity, Switching Friction, Defensibility of Data Advantage, Regulatory Insulation, and Innovation Velocity, among others.  From there, a lightweight model could be built to assess a company’s current AI exposure (or lack thereof) and identify whether their moat is real or illusory.  Given software alone carries essentially no IP protection (and “vibe coding” becoming increasingly more powerful), the risk of a small yet nimble competitor emerging and disrupting the scene is very real – making the more important factors limited to things like proprietary data integration, a unique network effect, vendor lock-in, or physical hardware.  In addition, the model would estimate an “MVP clone timeline” - essentially how long it would take a well-resourced competitor or a nimble startup to replicate the core product.  This could be a useful internal scoring rubric applied consistently across all inbound deals.  


Custom agents for consultancy, research, and tasks 
Beyond the specific tools above, there is broad utility in spinning up task-specific AI agents for one-off or recurring research and consultancy needs -  competitive landscape analysis, market sizing, LP report drafts, and similar work that currently consumes associate time.  These are generally straightforward to build on top of the Claude API and can be scoped narrowly in order to hone in on one task as opposed to a general-purpose chatbot. While I haven’t experimented enough with the technology yet to vouch with certainty of the safety and veracity of these tools, I have heard great things about breakthrough agentic tools like the open source OpenClaw and Kimi K2.5’s agent swarm, which can continuously perform online or real-world tasks when trained correctly. 
6 Week Implementation Timeline**

Week 1: Backoffice automation: Claude Cowork + Excel integration & Email Agent 
Week 2: Live Newsflow Tool (built with exa.ai and claude)
Week 3: Prospecting Pipeline (scraping + outreach agent) + Scheduling Infrastructure (self-hosted Cal.com) 
Week 4: Multichannel Sourcing Dashboard 
Week 5: Specific Agent Setups 
Week 6:  AI Defensibility Scoring Tool 

**Of course, this is just a rough overview and would be subject to fluctuation and change depending on prioritization and duration of completion.  
